So in this video, we will be talking about the next two classes, which will be take attendance and
list attendance for the employers.
So this first class here is a take attendance class.
So we have imported the necessary packages like Java SQL to connect with the database.
Java dot Java extract is a swing to create a better graphical user interface.
Similarly for the Java WP and Java dot dot event to handle events over buttons or menu items.
After that, we have defined the public class take attendance, which is extending the frame and implementing
action listener.
Inside which we have defined the seven labels and seven text fields, there will be two buttons and
three choices C to F and such.
Then we have defined the non parameterized constructor for that take attendance class.
Inside the constructor we have set the layout of the frame as new grid layout for comma to 50.
Comma 50.
See to is equals to new choice we have initialized here now inside the tribe log.
What we are doing is we are creating a connect instance of connection class, which we have discussed
earlier, which will help us to connect with the database.
And inside the initializing the results.
At instance, we are executing the query with the help of see DOT as s select extract from employ.
So what it does, it will iterate over record of all the employers and while dot dot next will be iterating
over all the records one by one over the rows of those records.
So for every row what we are doing is we are adding the choice.
Of adding the IDs of those employers to the to our choice variable C to.
It can't block will handle any exception if of.
Then what we did is we have added a label to our DJ frame with the name as select employ number and
then we have added the choice to our DJ frame.
After that, we have defined the label.
Name that first half.
And then we have defined on initialize the choice which is equals to new choice.
For first half, we have added the choices in our effects variable like first is present, absent or
lib.
So either three conditions can be there for the attendance purpose.
Either the person is present in the first half or absent in the first half, or the employee is on leave
currently.
Adding that label to our frame and also its respect to.
Uh, choice field after that.
What we are doing is we have defined a two.
That is a label labeled as second half.
So this label will be used to store attendance of second half, so as is equals to new choice.
So this will create a new choice instance named as assets.
And inside the second of choice we have added, present, absent and live similarly, which as we have
added in the first half choice instance we have we are adding the three choices in our second half instance
as well.
After that, we have added our L2 and second half choice to our frame.
After that we have defined a button we when it goes to new button submit.
So this is the button which will when we will click on submit so that attendance will be uploaded to
our database.
Also, we want its background color as black and foreground color as white.
Then we have to find another button b two labeled as cancel.
Whose background color is black and foreground color is white.
We have added both of the buttons to our frame.
After that, we have added access to both of the buttons with the current instance.
Then we have set the background property of the complete window or frame as white.
Then visibility of the window as true and its size as 400.
Cross 450 and its location at 600.
Comma 200.
Now we have defined the action performed method over the argument past to it is action event e inside
this action performed the method.
What we are doing is we are creating a string f inside which we are restoring efforts to get selected
item.
So inside the string f we are restoring the selected item from the first half choice.
Now inside the string s, we are restoring the selected item from the second half choice.
Inside the string d d.
We are creating a new Java.
..8.2 string.
So this will take the current date on which the attendance for that particular employee have been recorded.
Then we will be showing a string ID as equals to see to get selected item.
So this fill is store the selected item from the string from the choice see to and store it into a string
ID.
Now there is a string query we have created inside which we have initialized the insert into attendance.
So this query will insert the data into our attendance table, which we have created in our database
and library video values as ID data F and as these will be the values inside our attendance table.
Inside the tribe log.
We have created our connection and stance by using our common class and with the help of the statement
instance and the class instance.
C 1.2. Execute Update Query.
We have passed the testing query so that the data will be inserted into our attendance table in our
database.
After that, we have shown or displayed a dialog box which shows that attendance confirmed.
Then we will set the visibility of the current window as false and inside the catch block.
We will be handling any exception if of course inside the static void main method, we are just creating
the take attendance instance of this class.
So this is all about the taking attendance of employees.
Let's have a look how the attendance.
We can check the attendance for any employee.
So that will be in list attendance to our Java file.
So here we are at list attendance on Java file.
So import Java SQL testing.
So we are first importing the Java SQL package which will help us to create a connection with our database
Java Export Swing, AWP and JWT event, which will be helping us to handle the events over the buttons.
After that, we are creating the class or initializing defining the class list attendance which is extending
frame and implementing action list.
Now after that there is a table J one and J button B one.
Then a string edge.
Inside the string edge, there is an array of a string of what we are doing inside this string edge
array.
We are restoring the values like employ ID, date time, first half and second half.
So this is the string edge array which will be used as a number of columns or the name of the columns.
Then we have defined a string D, which is of a two dimensional area of a string named as D, its size
will be 15 plus four.
Then we have defined the two integer variables as equals to zero and j is equal to zero.
After that we have defined the non parameter constructor of this class heading as will employ attendance.
Setting the size of that particular frame, frame as 800, comma, ten, 300.
After that, we have set the location.
As for 50, comma, 150.
For that particular window.
Now, inside the lock we have created a string Q on which we have installed select asterisk from attendance.
Now, with the help of the Cons, even as it goes to new con, what we are doing is we are creating
the instance of our con class which will help us to.
Interact with the database.
Now, inside the results set with the help of the instance of results that we are executing that query.
Seven point start, execute, query and pass that string.
Q So that the select testing from attendance query will be executed.
And now while I start next, will what this line will do.
This will iterate over the record of the attendance row by row so as to start next for first time it
will be showing the record of first edit first row.
In the second time it will show the record of the second row.
So we are storing that particular records in our two dimensional area with a comma j plus plus as I
will be used for the row and J will be used for column.
So we are incrementing our columns and storing the particular ID date time f off as those are first
time and second half details in our two dimensional area.
So after a successful inserting of the values in first row, we will increment the value of five for
the second row and take down the g value of G to zero again.
Then we have defined the game and it goes to a new table by passing that two dimensional array and the
number of columns or the string array edge.
After that, the cache block will handle any exception, if course.
So B1 is equals to new button print.
So this will button this button will be used for the printing purpose.
Then we have added that button be one comma sound.
So what we are doing is we are adding that button to our frame.
And then we have defined a scroll panel as one is equals to no scroll panel and passed the instance
of the table to that a scroll panel so that the table must be scrollable if there are multiple records
adding that scroll panel to our frame.
After that, we have added action lists not also to our.
Button.
After that, we have defined public void action performed method which is taking an action event a and
inside the try block.
What we are doing is we are calling German print.
So if we want to print that sentence we can click on the print button and it will take us to the print
page for that particular record.
Catch BLOCK will underline the exception if occurs now public static void main string appears inside
this method.
We have just created the instance of the listed condensed method and set the visibility as true.
So this is all about the two classes which we have discussed in this video.
So the first class was taken and which will help us to take the attendance of the employees.
And the second class was listed attendance which will help us to show or have a display or have a look
on the attendance of any particular employee.